Main characters
Emma (エマ Ema)
Voiced by: Sumire Morohoshi[1] (Japanese); Erica Mendez[2] (English)
Emma is the main character of the series and one of the three oldest children living at Grace Field House. Like Ray and Norman, she is 11 years old and consistently gets perfect scores during their daily exams. She is identified by her ID number 63194 and known for her ample optimism as well as her capable athleticism.
Upon discovering the truth of the orphanage, Emma teams up with Norman and Ray to escape the house. Her strong sense of selflessness insists that everyone escape together, even if most of their siblings are below 6 years old, an aim which Ray deems crazy and plain reckless.
Norman (ノーマン Nōman)
Voiced by: Maaya Uchida[1] (Japanese); Jeannie Tirado[2] (English)
Norman is one of the three oldest children living at Grace Field House and, like Ray and Emma, is 11 years old and consistently gets perfect scores during their daily exams. He is identified by his ID number 22194 and known for being a genius strategist and planner, as well as unbeatable at the game of tag.
He discovers the truth of the orphanage with Emma and teams up with Ray to devise a plan to escape. While he knows leaving with every child in the house is near to impossible, his love for Emma pushes him to continue trying. As the most intelligent out of the three, he is the first to find out Ray's true identity as Isabella's spy and prepare various back-up plans and escape routes. After Ray is betrayed by Isabella, Norman is forced to be shipped before his 12th birthday, accepting his fate of inevitable death to deceive her and let the rest of the children escape.
Ray (レイ Rei)
Voiced by: Mariya Ise[1] (Japanese); Laura Stahl[2] (English)
Ray is one of the three oldest children living at Grace Field House and, like Emma and Norman, is 11 years old and consistently gets perfect scores during their daily exams. He is identified by his ID number 81194 and known for being an avid reader with high intellectual abilities, blunt skepticism and cunning.
Being the only biological child of their caretaker who is "Mama" Isabella, he did not experience childhood amnesia, confirming his suspicions about the existence of demons and true nature of the house later when he was 6 years old. Ray becomes Isabella's spy in exchange for goods and the promise that he, Emma and Norman could live their lives to the fullest, pledging to use the remaining 6 years of his life to orchestrate a plan that would lead to his two best friends finding out the truth themselves. After a confrontation from Norman, he becomes the children's trump card just as Isabella betrays him. Although initially unwilling to accept Emma's unrealistic goal of escaping with every child, he vows to never give up on them after their escape succeeds.